All right.
So the last really critical part of promises is understanding promise changing.
So I've updated the fake request function to now have a much more robust set of pages.
Still pretty minimal but we have a couple of different end points we can make a fake request to slash
users which would give us something like this where we have an idea for each user and I could use that
idea to make a second request to get more information about a user.
And this is actually a really common pattern where a Web site or some API is set up with some end point
that gives you a little bit of information about every user or every.
I don't know dog in the dog shelter or every post on a on the Reddit home page.
Then it gives you an idea that you can use to make a second follow up request using information from
the first so that you can get more detailed information.
Like I have here.
So if we wanted to mock that we would make a request to slash users fake request and get this information
back.
Then we could take this I.D. idea of one and make a request to slash users slash one.
But we want to do that after this one finishes.
After we know for sure what that I.D. is just like we would in the real world.
So if you pretend for a moment that this is real it's not just a fake object of pages where we're just
hard coding the data in those ideas could change.
There could be users that are deleted.
So we would ask for all users.
And then make a request to users slash one with what we know right now.
Here's how we would do it.
Fake request and then that you are well.
Let's start with Slash users.
Then we have our callback which gives us a response and then what we would do is take a look at response
dot data.
That is the name that we use straight.
If we come down here data and we want the I.D. right here.
This idea of the first user.
So the array is what we get back that contains two items.
If we just counsel that log resource data let's just pretend that we are on a journey with a real API.
Here's what we get back in array.
So if we want to take the first user that would be constant log restored data 0.
If we want that I.D. we could save it to a variable.
Let's just make sure we're printing it out correctly.
After one second.
Okay.
So let's save this to a variable we'll call it concept I.D..
So we have the piece of information we need to make our second request with what we've seen so far.
Just gonna.
Oh I'm not printing anything.
Well I'm an idiot.
Nothing will show up but with what we've seen so far we would have to just make another call to fake
requests.
We have to do that.
Either way if we can't get around that.
But we would nested in here because we need this to happen after this one finishes.
So logically it would go in the dot then if we put it down here it's not going to happen afterwards.
We depend on this I.D. which we only have access to in this callback.
The dot then callback where the response is passed through.
So I have to do it in here with what we've seen.
I would call fake requests again and we'll use a template literal to do slash users slash and then dollar
sign curly braces my I.D. I got from the previous request and I could do a second dot then same exact
thing rez and then we can cancel that log.
The response let's see what we get.
So we should get a first.
Actually we're not printing the very first time so we only see the second response that we get back
and it has more information about the user with I.D. of one and status of two hundred.
This all looks good.
If I wanted to make another request with that if we look at the data we got back we have this top post
I.D..
So I now can send a request to another U.R.L. setup in my pages.
Object called slash posts Slash.
And then this I.D. so I could then make another request fake request and it's red dot data dot.
What was it.
Top post I.D..
Yes.
So this is a third request that is dependent upon the second request which itself is dependent upon
the data we got back from the very first request we got.
All users that gave us an I.D. we could use we use that to make a request using that I.D..
Now we get this top post I.D. which we can use to make another request to such post slash some I.D.
so we'll do slash posts slash and we'll save this to a variable cost I.D. again.
Or how about post I.D. and then interpolate that with dollar sign curly braces post I.D. one more dot
then we'll get our response hopefully and then we'll do our council dot log.
Response
okay we'll try it.
Come on.
All right.
What do we get back.
Yes we're getting our post information.
Ladies and gentlemen may I introduce you to my pet pig Hamlet.
So this was some hypothetical post on our website by this user.
So what we have here doesn't.
Honestly it doesn't look much better than what we saw in the whole callback hell section of the section
where we talked about nesting a whole bunch of things.
Also we don't have catches right now so if I wanted to do that it gets even messier if I want to catch.
I would do duck catch pass in my callback and we'll just call this error and then console that log.
Oh no.
And then we'll also just print the error.
So right now we don't have a way of causing an error.
But if I mess up this request and I use it wrong or an invalid U.R.L. like that it should catch it and
it does we get oh no here's our error it's a status code four hundred four a four and an object.
But if this one is valid and I instead miss this request up this is a you are well that doesn't exist
in our pages.
Let's see what happens.
It didn't work.
I mean the promise was rejected but we didn't catch it like we have here.
So this catch is only working for this fake request.
So I would need another dot catch for this dot then.
So we have a much much nicer way of rewriting all of this.
What we're doing here is essentially the same thing we saw with callbacks where we just nest them and
nest them and nest them.
This fake request is dependent on the data from this one.
This third one is dependent on the second one.
So it makes sense to nest them but we have a whole different way of structuring them.
What we can do instead I'll just type this sort of in a shorthand up here.
If we do a dot then and in the callback if the DOT then we return a promise we can call dot then immediately
after on the same level I don't have to nest I can change it and I can continue to chain as long as
each callback for dot then returns a promise I won't nest my dot then I won't have to do any nesting.
Instead I return to promise this dot then runs first.
It returns a promise.
This dot then will run if the second promise the returned promise was resolved and so on.
So let me show you what that would look like.
We have our fake request then and then we have this whole callback here we get the I.D. then we have
our second fake request here but I'm going to do is remove all of this right here and return this function
call this returns a promise just like this did our function.
The first line says return new promise.
So this return to promise we're putting the dot then on that promise.
Then inside this dot then we return another promise.
And what I can do is put my next dot then on the same level.
So here I am doing another dot then getting the post I.D. from the response I can return this fake request
which returns a promise and I can move my dog then outside so if you look at my code now I should have
saved the original where we were nesting things it was then and then inside that dog then we essentially
had another dog then and then another dog then.
And we didn't even bother with catches that was still a lot of nesting.
Now what we're seeing if you take my word that this does work is that we can write things in a much
more linear way.
So do this then do this then do this.
So this will only run if the first promise was resolved meaning this ran then that promise that was
returned the second promise was resolved.
Meaning that this code runs in the dog then callback and this promise is resolved which would trigger
this callback.
So if any of those screw up at any point and this is a real magical part we only need one catch.
So this sketch will run if any of these promises are rejected.
We have this promise.
We only need one dog catch.
It's like a catch all.
It's really really nice.
So right now we do have an error here.
It won't work.
So let's just start with it actually working so users than users slash the ideas then post slash the
post study.
Let's see what happens.
I'm going to console that log the data we get back each time show cancels out log rez.
I'll do that here and you'll see them happening one after another even though they're not nested.
I'm doing it twice here OK.
Moment of Truth we get our first one second one third one.
It's pretty cool right.
We don't have to nest these take time but we don't have to use a bunch of callbacks and continue to
nest and get crazy with that multi level craziness multi-level craziness.
Yeah.
All we have to do is make sure we return promise instead of this callback and then we can just add another
dot.
Then we could have as many levels as we want.
Remember like Eddie said this is only going to run this.
Then if this promise was resolved and this one is dependent on this promise being resolved this one
is dependent on this one.
So it doesn't look like we have this crazy multi level dependency thing going on but that's a magic
of promises.
We can rewrite our code in a much easier to read manner.
Right.
Do this then do this.
Then do this then do this.
If at any point something went wrong do this.
So why don't we have something go wrong at the beginning.
We'll use a Euro that doesn't exist Oh no.
OK.
So the catch ran that callback.
Now let's have something go wrong here.
So we have our first promise that should be resolved.
There we go.
Then we get Oh no.
And this code never ran right.
When we had an error with the very first one none of the other dot then ran it went straight to dot
catch and it was done.
But now if I have an error in this third request we get the first two resolved resolved rejected dot
catch runs so hopefully you can see already even though we're doing very fake stuff it's a mocked request
it's hard coded it's stupid.
I won't say stupid it's useless in the real world.
It's useful in an educational context even though all of that is true.
It's still a good illustration of the benefits of using promises.
We can have multiple asynchronous actions that we want to happen one after another.
So not simultaneously but one after another we change dot then as long as we return a promise each time
everything works and we only need one dot catch.
So what we're going to do next is revisit the early example that I used to illustrate callback hell
where we were moving a button across the screen.
We'll rewrite it with promises something slightly more useful instead of just a arbitrary fake request.
You'll see how much time.
Well you'll see how much code it saves us and how many headaches it prevents.
It's so much easier to read.
So that's next.